as some people in the comment section
have already pointed out Buddhism and
stoicism are actually quite alike this
is quite surprising because stoicism was
founded in the Greek city of Athens
while Buddhism originates from India
although there's no historical proof of
significant influence from Buddhism on
stoicism or the other way around
some believe that this was the case but
whatever the case may be the
similarities are striking in this video
I will explore three of them
[Music]
the first similarity is the set of
practices that lead to happiness
the Buddhists have the Eightfold Path
which consists of eight practices right
view right resolve right speech right
conduct Right Livelihood right effort
right mindfulness and right Samadhi
Samadhi can be translated loosely as
meditation by following the Eightfold
Path we release ourselves from the
bondage of attachment to earthly
pleasures as well as our endless mental
chatter and reach a state of liberation
the Buddhists called as liberation
nirvana
which means enlightenment to attain
we must abstain from certain things and
embrace others we are to keep our
desires for sensual pleasures in check
do the right thing and act wisely
instead of foolishly this is
surprisingly similar to the stoic system
of virtue and vice for the Stoics
happiness means living in accordance
with nature which they call eudaimonia
eudaimonia can be attained by following
virtue and staying away from a vice
stoic virtue can be subdivided in wisdom
justice courage and moderation stoic
advice can be subdivided in foolishness
injustice cowardice and intemperance
which are basically the opposites while
there are differences between the
Buddhist and stoic Pursuit of Happyness
both traditions revolve around practices
to end suffering and reach inner peace
the second similarity is the view on
desire aversion and attachment in
Buddhism the root of suffering lies in
the three poisons delusion desire and
aversion desire itself isn't always a
bad thing
desiring food and water is necessary to
some extent otherwise we would not
survive and desiring not to desire is
also desire
however desire has close relationships
with craving greed and attachment and
with an temperance or the lack of
moderation which is a stoic vice
the Buddha observed that when we attach
ourselves to other people we hurt when
they disappear and when we desire
strongly for money
we hurt when we lose it the opposite of
desire is a version which leads to fear
and hate and as Master Yoda so
profoundly stated hate leads to
suffering
Epictetus concluded the same as we can
read in the stoic work the enchiridion
and I quote remember that following
desire promises the attainment of death
of which you are desirous and a virgin
promises the avoiding that to which you
are averse however he who fails to
obtain the object of his desire is
disappointed and he who incurs the
object of his aversion wretched and
quote the Stoics argued that we should
not focus on things beyond our control
these things are unreliable
so attaching to them is a recipe for
suffering this doesn't mean that we
should averse them instead it's better
to develop a healthy indifference
towards them which the Buddhists call
detachment or non attachment last but
not least the third similarity between
stoicism and Buddhism is that both
traditions encourage us to focus on the
now the Buddhists use mindfulness and
meditation techniques to keep their
attention in this moment and train the
so called monkey mind here is a part of
the translation by the Vietnamese monk
take not half of one of the discourses
of the Buddha I quote do not pursue the
past do not lose yourself in the future
the past no longer is the future has not
yet come looking deeply at life as it is
in the very here and now the
practitioner dwells in stability and
freedom and quote now let's take a look
what stoic philosopher Seneca had to say
about this and a quote true happiness is
to enjoy the present without anxious
dependence upon the future not to amuse
ourselves with either hopes or fears but
to rest satisfied with what we have
which is sufficient for he that is so
wants nothing and quote as we can see
Stowe is
and Buddhism both agree that we should
focus our attention on the present
moment stoic philosopher Emperor Marcus
Aurelius argued that past nor future
have power over us only the present and
even death can be minimized that's why
we shouldn't burden ourselves with our
wild imagination about them I think that
the Buddha would have wholeheartedly
agreed thank you for watching
[Music]
you